

CERTIFICATION OF ENROLLMENT

SUBSTITUTE SENATE BILL 6043

Chapter 368, Laws of 2005

59th Legislature
2005 Regular Session 



PERSONAL INFORMATION--NOTICE OF SECURITY BREACHES




EFFECTIVE DATE: 7/24/05


      Passed by the Senate March 8, 2005
        YEAS 47   NAYS 0

      BRAD OWEN
      ________________________________________    
      President of the Senate
      Passed by the House April 12, 2005
        YEAS 97   NAYS 1

      FRANK CHOPP
      ________________________________________    
      Speaker of the House of Representatives


       CERTIFICATE

      I, Thomas Hoemann, Secretary of the Senate of the State of Washington, do 
      hereby certify that the attached is SUBSTITUTE SENATE BILL 6043 as passed 
      by the Senate and the House of Representatives on the dates hereon set 
      forth.

      THOMAS HOEMANN
      ________________________________________    
      Secretary
      Approved May 10, 2005.








      CHRISTINE GREGOIRE
      ________________________________________    
      Governor of the State of Washington FILED
      May 10, 2005 - 9:40 a.m.







      Secretary of State
      State of Washington




_____________________________________________ 

SUBSTITUTE SENATE BILL 6043
_____________________________________________


Passed Legislature - 2005 Regular Session
      State of Washington59th Legislature2005 Regular Session

By Senate Committee on Financial Institutions, Housing & Consumer Protection 
(originally sponsored by Senators Brandland, Fairley, Benson, Keiser, Schmidt, 
Spanel, Benton, Franklin, Berkey, Kohl-Welles and Rasmussen) 
READ FIRST TIME 03/02/05.   



     AN ACT Relating to breaches of security that compromise personal 
information; adding a new section to chapter 42.17 RCW; and adding a new chapter 
to Title 19 RCW.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON:
NEW SECTION.  Sec. 1   A new section is added to chapter 42.17 RCW under the 
subchapter heading "public records" to read as follows:
     (1)(a) Any agency that owns or licenses computerized data that includes 
personal information shall disclose any breach of the security of the system 
following discovery or notification of the breach in the security of the data to 
any resident of this state whose unencrypted personal information was, or is 
reasonably believed to have been, acquired by an unauthorized person. The 
disclosure shall be made in the most expedient time possible and without 
unreasonable delay, consistent with the legitimate needs of law enforcement, as 
provided in subsection (3) of this section, or any measures necessary to 
determine the scope of the breach and restore the reasonable integrity of the 
data system.
     (b) For purposes of this section, "agency" means the same as in RCW 
42.17.020.
     (2) Any agency that maintains computerized data that includes personal 
information that the agency does not own shall notify the owner or licensee of 
the information of any breach of the security of the data immediately following 
discovery, if the personal information was, or is reasonably believed to have 
been, acquired by an unauthorized person.
     (3) The notification required by this section may be delayed if a law 
enforcement agency determines that the notification will impede a criminal 
investigation. The notification required by this section shall be made after the 
law enforcement agency determines that it will not compromise the investigation.
     (4) For purposes of this section, "breach of the security of the system" 
means unauthorized acquisition of computerized data that compromises the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of personal information maintained by 
the agency. Good faith acquisition of personal information by an employee or 
agent of the agency for the purposes of the agency is not a breach of the 
security of the system when the personal information is not used or subject to 
further unauthorized disclosure.
     (5) For purposes of this section, "personal information" means an 
individual's first name or first initial and last name in combination with any 
one or more of the following data elements, when either the name or the data 
elements are not encrypted:
     (a) Social security number;
     (b) Driver's license number or Washington identification card number; or
     (c) Account number or credit or debit card number, in combination with any 
required security code, access code, or password that would permit access to an 
individual's financial account.
     (6) For purposes of this section, "personal information" does not include 
publicly available information that is lawfully made available to the general 
public from federal, state, or local government records.
     (7) For purposes of this section and except under subsection (8) of this 
section, notice may be provided by one of the following methods:
     (a) Written notice;
     (b) Electronic notice, if the notice provided is consistent with the 
provisions regarding electronic records and signatures set forth in 15 U.S.C. 
Sec. 7001; or
     (c) Substitute notice, if the agency demonstrates that the cost of 
providing notice would exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars, or that the 
affected class of subject persons to be notified exceeds five hundred thousand, 
or the agency does not have sufficient contact information. Substitute notice 
shall consist of all of the following:
     (i) E-mail notice when the agency has an e-mail address for the subject 
persons;
     (ii) Conspicuous posting of the notice on the agency's web site page, if 
the agency maintains one; and
     (iii) Notification to major statewide media.
     (8) An agency that maintains its own notification procedures as part of an 
information security policy for the treatment of personal information and is 
otherwise consistent with the timing requirements of this section is in 
compliance with the notification requirements of this section if it notifies 
subject persons in accordance with its policies in the event of a breach of 
security of the system.
     (9) Any waiver of the provisions of this section is contrary to public 
policy, and is void and unenforceable.
     (10)(a) Any customer injured by a violation of this section may institute a 
civil action to recover damages.
     (b) Any business that violates, proposes to violate, or has violated this 
section may be enjoined.
     (c) The rights and remedies available under this section are cumulative to 
each other and to any other rights and remedies available under law.
     (d) An agency shall not be required to disclose a technical breach of the 
security system that does not seem reasonably likely to subject customers to a 
risk of criminal activity.

NEW SECTION.  Sec. 2   (1) Any person or business that conducts business in this 
state and that owns or licenses computerized data that includes personal 
information shall disclose any breach of the security of the system following 
discovery or notification of the breach in the security of the data to any 
resident of this state whose unencrypted personal information was, or is 
reasonably believed to have been, acquired by an unauthorized person. The 
disclosure shall be made in the most expedient time possible and without 
unreasonable delay, consistent with the legitimate needs of law enforcement, as 
provided in subsection (3) of this section, or any measures necessary to 
determine the scope of the breach and restore the reasonable integrity of the 
data system.
     (2) Any person or business that maintains computerized data that includes 
personal information that the person or business does not own shall notify the 
owner or licensee of the information of any breach of the security of the data 
immediately following discovery, if the personal information was, or is 
reasonably believed to have been, acquired by an unauthorized person.
     (3) The notification required by this section may be delayed if a law 
enforcement agency determines that the notification will impede a criminal 
investigation. The notification required by this section shall be made after the 
law enforcement agency determines that it will not compromise the investigation.
     (4) For purposes of this section, "breach of the security of the system" 
means unauthorized acquisition of computerized data that compromises the 
security, confidentiality, or integrity of personal information maintained by 
the person or business. Good faith acquisition of personal information by an 
employee or agent of the person or business for the purposes of the person or 
business is not a breach of the security of the system when the personal 
information is not used or subject to further unauthorized disclosure.
     (5) For purposes of this section, "personal information" means an 
individual's first name or first initial and last name in combination with any 
one or more of the following data elements, when either the name or the data 
elements are not encrypted:
     (a) Social security number;
     (b) Driver's license number or Washington identification card number; or
     (c) Account number or credit or debit card number, in combination with any 
required security code, access code, or password that would permit access to an 
individual's financial account.
     (6) For purposes of this section, "personal information" does not include 
publicly available information that is lawfully made available to the general 
public from federal, state, or local government records.
     (7) For purposes of this section and except under subsection (8) of this 
section, "notice" may be provided by one of the following methods:
     (a) Written notice;
     (b) Electronic notice, if the notice provided is consistent with the 
provisions regarding electronic records and signatures set forth in 15 U.S.C. 
Sec. 7001; or
     (c) Substitute notice, if the person or business demonstrates that the cost 
of providing notice would exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars, or that the 
affected class of subject persons to be notified exceeds five hundred thousand, 
or the person or business does not have sufficient contact information. 
Substitute notice shall consist of all of the following:
     (i) E-mail notice when the person or business has an e-mail address for the 
subject persons;
     (ii) Conspicuous posting of the notice on the web site page of the person 
or business, if the person or business maintains one; and
     (iii) Notification to major statewide media.
     (8) A person or business that maintains its own notification procedures as 
part of an information security policy for the treatment of personal information 
and is otherwise consistent with the timing requirements of this section is in 
compliance with the notification requirements of this section if the person or 
business notifies subject persons in accordance with its policies in the event 
of a breach of security of the system.
     (9) Any waiver of the provisions of this section is contrary to public 
policy, and is void and unenforceable.
     (10)(a) Any customer injured by a violation of this section may institute a 
civil action to recover damages.
     (b) Any business that violates, proposes to violate, or has violated this 
section may be enjoined.
     (c) The rights and remedies available under this section are cumulative to 
each other and to any other rights and remedies available under law.
     (d) A person or business under this section shall not be required to 
disclose a technical breach of the security system that does not seem reasonably 
likely to subject customers to a risk of criminal activity.

NEW SECTION.  Sec. 3   Section 2 of this act constitutes a new chapter in Title 
19 RCW.


         Passed by the Senate March 8, 2005.
         Passed by the House April 12, 2005.
         Approved by the Governor May 10, 2005.
         Filed in Office of Secretary of State May 10, 2005.
